Rain of Wisdom, Love and Spiritual Power
A Guru Yoga of the Three Mañjughoṣas of Tibet, Land of Snow
by Jamyang Khyentse Chökyi Lodrö

Namo gurave!
I shall here set out a practice of the profound path of guru yogaFor the great charioteers of
the teachings in this Land of Snowy Peaks,Manifestations of the bodhisattvas of the Three
Families, embodying wisdom, love and spiritual power,1Three Lions of Speech.
Here, should you wish to practise this guru yoga which brings together these three great treasuries
of wisdom, noble gurus whose great leonine roars of excellent explanation and unparalleled
activity made them like second buddhas for the Dharma teachings in this land of Tibet
and terrified the many fox-like beings who proclaim falsity, then, as a preliminary,
remain for a long time with an attitude of renunciation and bodhicitta. Then imagine that
the sources of refuge are directly present in the sky before you and recite the following:
dak sok deng né changchub nyingpö bar
I and others, from now until we attain the essence of awakening,
jetsün lama rik sum sempa la
Take refuge with fervent and unwavering faith
miché depé dungshuk drakpo yi
In these noble gurus, the bodhisattvas of the three families:
kyab su chi’o tukjé zung du sol
Hold us with your compassion, we pray!
Recite this as many times as possible. Then generate bodhicitta with:
pamé tsor jé khakhyab semchen nam
To free all beings throughout the universe, especially my own parents,
rik druk sipé dukngal lé drol né
From the sufferings of the six classes of saṃsāric existence,
dzokpé changchub chok la göpé chir
And establish them all in supreme and perfect awakening,
zabmo lamé naljor nyam lang gyi
I shall practise this profound guru yoga!
Recite this three times. Then for the main practice, there is the visualisation of the support
for accumulation:
om maha shunyata dzana benza sobhava atma ko hang
oṃ mahāśūnyatā jñāna vajra svabhāva atmako ’haṃ
zungdzin chö kün mimik ying su tim
Dualistic phenomena dissolve into non-referential space.
tongpé ngang lé dün gyi namkha ru
Out of this emptiness experience, in the sky before me,
ja ö zer tik trukpé longchen por
Amidst a vast expanse of rays and orbs of pulsating rainbow-coloured light
tsawé lama rik sum sempé zuk
Appears the root guru in the form of the bodhisattvas of the three families.
ü su sengtri pé dé den gyi teng
In the centre, upon a lion throne and seats of lotus and moon,
sangwé dakpo künkhyen longchenpa
Is the Lord of Secrets, Omniscient Longchenpa,2
karsal chak nyi pümö tengdu kab
Brilliant white with his two hands covering his knees.
pemé chuktren gyepé yé kyi teng
He holds the stems of lotuses,
lekbam raldri yön teng dordril dzin
Which support a volume and sword to the right, and vajra and bell to the left.
yé su pekar dawé den teng du
On his right, upon a white lotus and moon-disc seat,
jamyang lama sakya pandita
Is the Mañjughoṣa guru, Sakya Paṇḍita,
shyi dzum chö ché chakgya ral lek dzin
Peaceful and smiling, with his hands in the Dharma-teaching mudrā and holding a sword and book.
yön du natsok pé dé den gyi teng
On his left, upon a multicoloured lotus and moon-disc seat,
chenrezik wang jetsün lo zang drak
Is Lord Avalokiteśvara, noble Lobzang Drakpa,
chak nyi chökhor lushing ral pö nam
With his two hands in the gesture of turning the Dharma-wheel and holding nāga-tree stems supporting
a sword and book.
sumka chögö nam sum dzepar lub
All three are elegantly attired in the three Dharma robes.
shyab nyi dorjé kyil trung drangpor shyuk
They sit upright with both legs crossed in the vajra posture,
rang rik wang tak chöpen dak gi dzé
And are adorned with the insignia and diadems appropriate to their family.
né sum yigé sum gyi tsenpa lé
From the three syllables that mark their three centres
ö trö kyabyul malü chendrang tim
Light radiates out to invite all the sources of refuge, which then dissolve into them.
For the seven branches that gather the accumulations:3
yeshe chizuk jetsün lama la
To the noble gurus, universal embodiments of wisdom,
shying dul drang nyam güpé chaktsal lo
I prostrate in devotion as many times as there are atoms in the universe.
dakpö zung dang ma zung chöpé tsok
Masses of gifts, including what is owned and unowned,
kuntuzangpö ting ngé dzin gyi chö
I offer through the meditative absorption of Samantabhadra.
tokmé sakpé dikdrib nyetung tsok
All misdeeds, obscurations, faults and downfalls accumulated throughout beginningless time,
nong gyö drakpö mi chab tol shying shak
I do not conceal but  acknowledge and confess with intense sorrow and remorse!
kyé pak nam kyi gewé chö kün la
In all the virtues of ordinary beings and the spiritually noble
trakdok mepar jesu yi rang ngo
I rejoice without the slightest trace of jealousy!
nya ngen dawar shyepa gang su dak
To all those who intend to pass into nirvāṇa
mi da dorjé tri la shyuk su sol
I pray: do not pass but remain upon the vajra throne!
dakshyen dü sum sakpé gewa nam
All my own and others’ virtuous deeds throughout the three times,
lamé dzokpé changchub chir ngo o
I dedicate to unsurpassed and perfect awakening!
Recite this three times or as many times as possible. You can also offer the maṇḍala, elaborately
or in brief.
For the offering of prayer, generate intense devotion while recalling the liberational lives
of these three noble gurus. Recite prayers that carry special blessings and praises to the
deeds of these sublime beings, as well as the following concise versions:
gyalwa kün gyi yeshe chik dü pa
Unique embodiment of all the victorious ones’ wisdom,
khyen rab chö kyi nyima jam su lé
Perfect knowledge that merges boundlessly as the sun of Dharma:
longchen rabjam shyab la solwa deb
Longchen Rabjam, at your feet I pray:
chokmé sherab chok gi ngödrub tsol
Grant me the attainment of supreme, impartial insight!
sheja tamché zikpé chen yang shing
You who have the eye of wisdom that sees all that is knowable,
dro kün gelek drubpé tukjé chen
The compassion that brings about the welfare of all beings,
samyé trinlé dzepé tob ngawa
The strength that accomplishes inconceivable enlightened action,
jamgön lamé shyab la solwa deb
Lama, you who are Mañjuśrī in person, at your feet I pray!
chö dul ser gyi lhünpor ten ché shing
Upon the basis of the golden mountain of Vinaya Dharma,
tubwang nyipé trinlé rangwang gyur
You mastered enlightened activity as a second Lord of Sages,
rabjam sheja tamché khyenpé dak
Supreme in your understanding of all limitless knowable things—
lobzang drakpé shyab la solwa deb
Lobzang Drakpa, at your feet I pray!
Recite these prayers as many times as possible, then recite the following name mantras:
om ah guru bimala rami sarwa siddhi hum
oṃ āḥ guru vimalarasmi sarva siddhi hūṃ4
om ah guru ananda dhadza sarwa siddhi hum
oṃ āḥ guru ānandadhvaja sarva siddhi hūṃ5
om ah guru mati bhadra kirti sarwa siddhi hum
oṃ āḥ guru matibhadrakīrti sarva siddhi hūṃ6
Recite each of these as many times as you can and invoke their wisdom minds.
To conclude, receive empowerment with the following:
sangwa gyatsö dzö dzin künkhyen jé
Omniscient lord, holder of the treasury of oceanic secrets,
jampé yang ngö kün ga gyaltsen pal
Glorious Kunga Gyaltsen, Mañjughoṣa in person,
nyingjé wangchuk jetsün lo zang drak
And noble Lobzang Drakpa, Lord of compassion—
solwa deb so jinlab wangkur tsol
To you I pray: grant your blessings and empowerments!
shyepé soltab künkhyen tukka né
Through this prayer, light streams from the Omniscient One’s heart centre,
ö trö khor nyi tsowö tukkar dü
And the other two masters dissolve into the heart of this central figure.
lamé tralwa o om lé ökar po
From the Oṃ at the guru’s forehead, white light streams out
rang gi chiwor tim shying bum wang tob
And dissolves into my crown—through this I obtain the vase empowerment,
lü kyi drib dak ku yi jinlab shyuk
Purify physical obscurations and receive the blessings of enlightened body.
kyerim gompar wang shyingsa gyé nön
I am empowered to meditate on the visualisation stage and reach the eighth bhūmi,
drebu tulku tobpé tendrel drik
And the auspicious connection to attain nirmāṇakāya fruition is established.
lamé drinpa o ah lé ö marpo
From the Āḥ at the guru’s throat centre, red light streams out
rang gi drinpar tim shying sangwang tob
And dissolves into my throat—through this I obtain the secret empowerment,
ngak gi drib dak sung gi jinlab shyuk
Purify vocal obscurations and receive the blessings of enlightened speech.
lung dang tummo gom shyingsa gu nön
I am empowered to practise subtle energy and tummo and reach the ninth bhūmi,
drebu longku tobpé tendrel drik
And the auspicious connection to attain saṃbhogakāya fruition is established.
lamé tukké hung lé ö ngönpo
From the Hūṃ at the guru’s heart centre, blue light streams out
rang gi nyinggar tim shying sherwang tob
And dissolves into my heart—through this I obtain the knowledge-wisdom empowerment,
yi kyi drib dak tuk kyi jinlab shyuk
Purify mental obscurations and receive the blessings of enlightened mind.
ponyé lam gom sa ni chuchik nön
I am empowered to practice the path of the messenger-consort and reach the eleventh bhūmi,
drebu chöku tobpé tendrel drik
And the auspicious connection to attain dharmakāya fruition is established.
lamé né sum özer dü chik trö
All at once, rays of light stream out from the guru’s three centres
rang gi né sum tim shying tsikwang tob
And dissolve into my own three places—through this I obtain the word empowerment,
künshyi drib dak yeshe jinlab shyuk
Purify obscurations of the ālaya and receive the blessings of primordial wisdom.
dorjé ba lab gom shying dré sa nön
I am empowered to practise the vajra wave and reach the fruitional stage,
ngowo nyi ku tobpé tendrel drik
And the auspicious connection to attain the svabhāvikakāya is established.
tar ni lama özer na ngapé
Finally, the guru becomes a mass of five-coloured rays of light,
gongbur gyur té rang gi chiwo né
Which dissolves into me, passing directly from my crown
nyinggar sib kyi timpa denyi mö
Down to my heart, and in that very instant
lodé ösal chökü rang shyal ta
I behold the face of dharmakāya, luminosity beyond the ordinary mind.
Settle in that merging of mind and wisdom mind.
When arising from the session, recite the following:
nangwa kündzob chi yi lama dang
May I perfect the practice of the profound yoga
tsa lung tiklé nang gi lama dang
Of the outer guru of conventional appearances,
riktong ösal sangwé lama yi
The inner guru of the channels, energies and essences,
naljor zabmö nyamlen tarchin shok
And the secret guru of the clear light of awareness-emptiness!
Then recite prayers and dedications such as the one beginning, “In all my lives...” Integrate
all your daily activities with the profound practice of the guru.
A path extolled by all the victorious ones,The concentrated essence of sūtra and mantra teachings—May
this profound guru yogaLiberate all beings throughout the entirety of space!

Thus, Tsuklak Lungrik Nyima Mawé Senge (Jamyang Chökyi Lodrö) wrote this in the residence known
as The Auspicious Garden of Immortality in the great dharma centre of Dzongsar Tashi Lhatse
at the behest of that lordly exponent of scripture and reasoning, Rago Choktrul Tashi
Namgyal, who also offered a gift in support of his request. May this be a cause for swiftly
receiving the blessings of wisdom vision. Maṅgalam!

| Translated by Adam Pearcey with the generous support of the Khyentse Foundation and Tertön
Sogyal Trust, 2019.

Source: 'Jam dbyangs chos kyi blo gros. "gangs can 'jam dbyangs rnam gsum gyi bla ma'i rnal
'byor mkhyen brtse nus mthu'i char 'bebs/" in ’Jam dbyangs chos kyi blo gros kyi gsung ’bum.
12 vols. Bir: Khyentse Labrang, 2012. W1KG12986 Vol. 4: 143–149
↑ i.e., Mañjuśrī, Avalokiteśvara and Vajrapāṇi.↑ Lord of Secrets is an epithet of Vajrapāṇi.↑
Only six branches are given in what follows. The lines for the request to turn the wheel
of Dharma appear to be missing in the only available edition.↑ Vimalarasmi is Sanskrit for
Drimé Özer (dri med ’od zer).↑ Ānandadhvaja is Sanskrit for Kunga Gyaltsen (kun dga’ rgyal
mtshan).↑ Matikīrti is Sanskrit for Lobzang Drakpa (blo bzang grags pa).