The Prayer that Swiftly Fulfils All Wishes (Sampa Nyur Drupma)
by Longchen Rabjam and Rigdzin Jikmé Lingpa

emaho, tso ü gesar pemé dongpo la
Emaho! In the heart of a blossoming lotus, upon the waters of the lake,
ku nga yeshe lhün gyi drubpé lha
You are the deity who is the spontaneous presence of the five kāyas and wisdoms,
rangjung chenpo pema yabyum ni
O great, naturally arisen Padma Yabyum
khandrö trinpung trik la solwa deb
Surrounded by clouds of ḍākinīs—to you we pray:
sampa nyurdu drubpar jingyi lob
Grant your blessing so that all our wishes be quickly fulfilled!

lé ngen chepé nammin tü kyepé
As a result of our negative karma, whenever we suffer
né dön barchö mak truk mugé sok
From illness, malevolent spirits (döns) and obstacles, warfare and violence, famine and starvation,
khyö shyal drenpé möla zé jepé
Then remember your promise that even simply to think of you will immediately dissolve all such
suffering—
shyalshyé nying né kul lo orgyen jé
O Lord of Orgyen, we implore you, from the depths of our hearts,
sampa nyurdu drubpar jingyi lob
Grant your blessing so that all our wishes be quickly fulfilled!

dé dang tsultrim tong la gompa dang
To practise devotion, discipline and generosity,
töpé gyü drol trelyö ngotsa shé
To free the mind through hearing the Dharma, and to have dignity, self-control
sherab pünsum tsokpé nor dünpo
And discriminating awareness—make these seven noble human qualities
semchen kün gyi gyü la rang shyuk né
Fill the hearts and minds of all sentient beings
jikten dekyi denpar ukjin dzö
And so bring peace and happiness to the world.
sampa nyurdu drubpar jingyi lob
Grant your blessing so that all our wishes be quickly fulfilled!

gangla né dang dukngal mindö kyen
When oppressed by illness, suffering and unwanted circumstances,
jungpö dön dang gyalpö chepa dang
Falling prey to harm from negative forces and punishment from kings and leaders,
mé chu chenzen lamtrang jikpa ché
Threatened by fire, water, vicious animals, and journeys of great danger,
tsé yi patar tukpé nekab kün
When this life is spent and death arrives—at these times
kyab dang resa shyendu machipé
We have nowhere to turn to except to you!
tukjé zung shik guru orgyen jé
Care for us with your great compassion, O great Orgyen Guru:
sampa nyurdu drubpar jingyi lob
Grant your blessing so that all our wishes be quickly fulfilled!

This prayer should be kept in the hearts of all those with faith, who wish to benefit the land
of Tibet, pacify illness, prevent famine and border invasions, and contribute to the welfare
of the teachings and beings.

The first stanza is taken from the verses of praise in ‘The Infinite Cloud Banks of Profound
Meaning’ (Zabdön Gyatsö Trinpung), the ‘background teachings’ to the omniscient Longchenpa’s
Khandro Yangtik, and the later verses are the blessed vajra words of the second omniscient
one, Rigdzin Jikmé Lingpa.

| Rigpa Translations. Revised 2018.

Source: dri med 'od zer. "gu ru'i gsol 'debs bsam pa myur 'grub/." In gsung 'bum/_dri med 'od
zer/ ?dpal brtsegs/ mes po'i shul bzhag?. 26 volumes. Beijing: krung go'i bod rig pa dpe
skrun khang /, 2009. Vol. 10: 249.

Version: 2.2-20220112